{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red51\green51\blue51;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs54 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Portfolio Text (shitty, will edit) 
\f1\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs38 \cf3 \strokec3 GetRead 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 1. Overview 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 January 2016\'96March 2016 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 GetRead was created as part of a UI/UX class at UC San Diego. \'a0I was part of a three-person development team for a mobile app. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 2. User Research and Problem 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 We knew that we had to focus our app around storytelling, since that was part of the class. \'a0We decided to focus on books, since what better means of storytelling is there than books? \'a0Duh. \'a0We focused on regrets expressed by our peers about not reading enough. \'a0Something that stuck out to us was the frequent regrets expressed by college students about reading as many books as they used to. \'a0As a result, we wanted to focus on making it easier for students to check out books. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 Through our interviews (conducted on college students age 19\'9622), we found that none of our interviewees read books during the academic quarter, aside from books assigned for class. \'a0Leisure reading was relegated to school breaks, if it happened at all. \'a0We also found thatthe main campus library at UCSD, Geisel Library, is rarely used to check out books other than textbooks. \'a0As a result, we chose to focus on connecting students to interesting books in Geisel Library. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 3. Ideation 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 At first, we came up with prototypes that catalogued all the books in Geisel Library and organized them by topic keywords. \'a0Users would be able to input their interests and be shown a list of books relevant to these interests. \'a0After this initial round of prototyping, we were dissatisfied. \'a0We felt that this approach was focused much more around books than it was around users. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 We went back to the drawing board, while still holding on to the idea of books as an underutilized resource. \'a0We also wanted to create more opportunities for interaction between people. \'a0We came up with a Tinder-esque app that would show books instead of people. \'a0The books that users swiped through would be recommendations from their friends, books that other people thought their friends would enjoy. \'a0We wanted to tap into the powerful connection created when one person lends a book to another. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 4. Development 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 When I started this project, I had only rudimentary knowledge of HTML and CSS, and barely any experience with JavaScript (let alone any libraries). \'a0Since I had more experience with art and user research, most of my early work was devoted to creating storyboards and paper prototypes, and with testing our prototypes on potential users. \'a0Once we started developing, I helped with the basics of our layout. \'a0I made some icons and contributed to aesthetic decisions, but our databases and other backend were handled by a teammate. \'a0I also presented our app in a mock pitch session. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 5. Challenges \'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 The main qualm that haunted my group throughout the process of making our app was the fear that we were off the mark. \'a0We weren\'92t really sure that people would even want to be connected through books; while sites that cater to communities of book lovers (like Goodreads) exist, we could also see that the user base seemed to be small. \'a0The very fact that not many people read for pleasure seemed to attest to the fact that we were doomed to fail. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 6. Reflection 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 GetRead was my first foray into developing in a group. \'a0I enjoyed working with my group members; I felt that we could have critical, yet respectful discussions about our design decisions, and that we were all committed to producing a good result. \'a0Even though our final design is by no means beautiful, I value the process that my group and I went through in order to create it. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 \page \pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Voting and Civic Engagement 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 1. Overview 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 April 2016 \'96\'a0June 2016 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 Our task was to analyze a problem from a human-centered design perspective. \'a0Since the California primaries were approaching, we decided to tackle the issue of voter turnout in college-age adults. \'a0We were swamped by the amount of information and ambiguity attached to our problem. \'a0Ultimately, we created items that could be used for a social media campaign, though the success of these items is not easily measured. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 2. User Research and Problem 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 We already knew that low voter turnout was a problem, but we didn\'92t know where to start in order to address it. \'a0Numerous studies and articles have highlighted the problem of low voter turnout in college-age adults. \'a0Apathy is often cited as a factor, based on the perception that college students don\'92t care about politics enough to vote. \'a0Logistical issues, such as registering to vote, can also be barriers for college students, since many college students live away from home. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 We conducted an online survey of 106 students and asked them about their past and intended voting habits. \'a0From our survey, we saw that many students had never registered to vote before, and that the students who registered to vote would not necessarily follow through on voting. \'a0These ideas were echoed in our expert interviews. \'a0We talked with leaders in student political organizations, and also with two full-time staffers for the Bernie Sanders campaign. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 One of our experts mentioned that many groups focus on voter registration, since registration is the first hurdle between being a non-voter and being a voter. \'a0As a result, we looked for ways that could encourage students to register to vote. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 3. Ideation 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 We wanted to come up with something testable, instead of proposing any major systemic overhauls. \'a0We turned our attention toward social media, since social media use among college-age adults is very high. \'a0One particular app that interested us was Snapchat, since it has widespread use among young adults, and very little use by other age groups. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 I spearheaded paper prototyping of our various geofilter ideas, and also vectored the designs in Photoshop. \'a0In addition, I went through Snapchat\'92s geofilter creation process. \'a0The ideas shown in the paper prototypes were based on insights from our expert interviews. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 There were other ideas that were not as easily communicated in a geofilter, such as statistics about voting. \'a0I made some of these ideas into posters. \'a0We printed a few copies of the posters and observed students walking past them on campus. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 4. Testing and Prototyping \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We implemented these geofilters in conjunction with Voterpalooza, a voter registration effort on campus. \'a0The goal of the "Why I Vote" filter was to encourage students to talk about their democratic involvement. Based on expert interviews and user surveys, my group intuited that people vote for a variety of different reasons, and we wanted to spark conversations around those reasons. The "Uncle Sam" filter was meant to be more fun. \'a0While neither filter generated significantly more views or uses than the other, it was a good experience for me as a designer. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 The "representation" poster was inspired by an anecdote from one of our expert interviews, who said that showing people the numerical weight of their vote does serve to encourage people to vote. It has a more emotional appeal, which was received well in feedback sessions. The "time" poster was meant to show people that voting is a quick activity that can easily fit into one's day. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We tested refined versions of the posters by taping them in public areas on campus and observing passersby. None of the posters were interacted with very much, though some people did take the tear-off strips at the bottom.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 5. Challenges 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 Despite our best efforts, we recognized that there was no way to measure or ensure follow-through. \'a0There was no way of knowing if each person who saw our geofilters thought about it, and no way of knowing if each person who took a tear-off strip actually went and voted when the primaries rolled around. This is a challenge that all civic engagement efforts face, and one that nobody has found a way to transcend. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We also faced an internal problem: my group was not very invested in our topic, or even our project. \'a0It was a constant challenge to continue ideating, prototyping, and testing when the same few people were coming up with ideas. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 6. Reflection 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 This project taught me a lot about group dynamics. \'a0It\'92s challenging to try to spark motivation and inspiration in others, and isn\'92t always worth it. \'a0I do feel that our end product was negatively affected by reluctance and lack of vision. \'a0If I were to do this project again, I think it would help to have a more narrowly defined goal; instead of \'93increase voter turnout in college students,\'94 focus on a specific part of the process, such as voter registration, and find a tangible way to improve that process. \page \pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf3 \strokec3 Drops 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 1. Overview 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 November 2016 \'96\'a0December 2016 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 As part of a three-person team, I helped to create a prototype for a music app. \'a0This project was completed over the course of three weeks. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 2. User Research and Problem 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We began by interviewing nine students, all of whom use music streaming apps on their phones. \'a0About half of the students use Spotify, while the other half use SoundCloud. \'a0Some students also use other apps, like Amazon Prime Music and Google Play Music. \'a0We asked users about their listening habits, their playlist usage, and what they like/dislike about the apps they use. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Many students reported discontent with the variety of music that was offered on their platform. \'a0Unfortunately, we can\'92t solve that problem. \'a0Other students were annoyed by music suggestion features (e.g. \'93Discover Weekly\'94 on Spotify), saying they preferred to follow the recommendations of other people, especially their friends. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 3. Ideation 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 It was clear that people value other people\'92s opinion on music. \'a0Many of our interviewees said that they get recommendations for new music by looking at what their friends have been listening to. \'a0We inferred that it would be valuable to take a social-based focus, and make it easy to see the activity of other users, in the vein of SoundCloud. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We also found that almost all of our interviewees value playlists as a way of organizing their music. \'a0Playlists are not only a mere means of organization, but also a means of curation, a way to make a statement about an artist, a time, or a feeling. \'a0We wanted to prioritize playlist creation and sharing in order to further personalize user\'92s experience in sharing and discovering new music. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We wanted to use a feed approach, similar to SoundCloud or 8tracks, because it makes it easier to see what other users are listening to. \'a0We also wanted to incorporate Spotify\'92s playlist creation flow, since it invites users to browse for music to add, instead of forcing users to build a playlist off of a song. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Finally, we wanted to focus on user\'92s profiles. \'a0One of our principles was that people value their friends\'92 taste in music; thus, we wanted to make it easy to see tracks and playlists that users have liked. \'a0We emulated Instagram\'92s layout for our profiles, because we like how clean and well-organized it is. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 4. Prototyping 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 I drew all our paper wireframes, in part because I think better on paper. \'a0We knew that we wanted to produce all the key screens for the app, and we knew the general layouts we were emulating for each. \'a0For the smaller details, like how to display a song as opposed to a playlist, or the exact links on the profile page, I tried to present similar screens from different apps (sometimes music apps, but other social apps as well, like Tumblr and Instagram) as a point of comparison. \'a0Once we collectively decided on details, we distributed the paper wireframes and recreated them in Sketch. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Another groupmate took the lead on making the digital prototype, because she has much more experience with Sketch than I do. \'a0With her help, I was able to produce much higher-quality wireframes than I would have been able to on my own. \'a0I helped make some of the icons, and helped with logo design and styling. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 5. Challenges 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 6. Reflection 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 While we may not have broken the mould of what makes a music app in any significant way, I\'92m proud of what we accomplished. \'a0This was my first experience with using Sketch, and my first significant experience with InVision. \'a0I definitely benefited from the expertise of my group members, and I feel that I was able to learn a lot with their guidance. \'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs30 \page \pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf3 \strokec3 Sketchbook 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\
}